---
title: "The Apostles' Creed"
updated: 2020-11-29
---

Although not written by the apostles, **The Apostles’ Creed** is a concise summary of their teachings. It originated as a baptismal confession, probably in the second century, and developed into its present form by the sixth or seventh century.

\*I believe in [[God the Father]] Almighty,
Maker of heaven and earth.

I believe in [[Jesus Christ]], his only Son, our Lord,
who was conceived by the Holy Spirit,
and born of the virgin Mary.
He suffered under Pontius Pilate,
was crucified, died, and was buried;
he descended into hell.
The third day he rose again from the dead.
He ascended into heaven
and is seated at the right hand of God the Father Almighty.
From there he will come to judge the living and the dead.

I believe in [[The Holy Spirit]],
the holy catholic church,
the communion of saints,
the forgiveness of sins,
the resurrection of the body,
and the life everlasting. Amen.\*

(**The Apostle's Creed** was originally recorded in both [[Greek]] and [[Latin]], not English. It sometimes goes by the name "Symbol of the Apostles" or "Symbol of [[The Trinity]]," with the word "Symbol" being used almost interchangably with the more current term "Creed." This English translation and the introductory statement before it is from the _Trinity Hymnal_, rev. ed (Suwanee, GA: Great Commission Publications, Inc., 1990), 845.)

---

<sup><sub><font color="#a6a6a6">updated: 2020-11-29</font></sub></sup>

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[god-the-father]: god-the-father "God the Father"
[jesus-christ]: jesus-christ "Jesus Christ"
[the-holy-spirit]: the-holy-spirit "The Holy Spirit"
[greek]: greek "Greek (Language)"
[latin]: latin "Latin"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"
